# Endeavor Snake
Designed by Daisy Shah as a 2023 Internship Project.
## Introduction
Endeavor Snake is a prototype designed to test the viability of gamifying the onboarding process at Endeavor Global, and possibly eventually across local offices. The software uses gaming to convey information in a more engaging and memorable way, something especially valuable during an employee's onboarding process, when they are given high volumes of "homework" to read up on as they prepare for their new role.
## Objectives
Endeavor Snake aims to become a scalable way for new hires to get to know their teammates. By using a simple game like Snake, we can reduce the delayed gratification and time required to learn about other employees by helping them find commonalities during the onboarding process. Generally, coffee chats take advanced planning and at least a 20-minute time committment for both parties, and some employees reported that it took as long as two years to feel fully comfortable collaborating with their teammates. A game like Endeavor Snake can ease this process by providing a breadth of information about everyone at once in a fun way to help reduce the barriers that obstructed adoption from other software tools.
## Project Compontents
These are important files to note in order to update the game for future iterations.
### index.html
This file is the base of the webpage. It contains a canvas in which the Javascript code for the game runs. The HTML also contains the Javascript code for the sidebar.
To create future iterations of the game, I would recommend leaving the HTML as-is and changing the Javascript file referenced on line 90.
### indeximg.js
This Javascript code contains the game itself. Important functions to note are the loadCSV() function, which is where the source of the data is defined, and the parseCSV() function, which indexes the data for the game to use. I have set up the parse function such that it is able to handle as many columns for questions as necessary. Thus, when switching out the CSV that is being used to populate the game's information, as long as the columns begin with first name, last name, and file name of the person's photo, as many question columns can be added as needed, and the game will add all of these to the question bank.
### tempUR.csv
This is the current CSV that was being used for user research on the site. For future files, it is important to follow the current format of first, last, photoURL, followed by the columns containing questions. As mentioned in the previous section, the program is able to handle as many questions as needed, as long as they are in column 4 and following.
## User Research
Following my user research trials, I have gathered some key insights about the feasibility of a game for the purpose of social onboarding.
### General
Overall, there was very positive reception to the use of gaming at Endeavor, and several people had mentioned that this initiative seemed in line with Endeavor's culture, particularly in the possibility of future competitive games. When asking how games could best be used at Endeavor, 39% responded onboarding and 39% responded with learning, while 17% wanted to see games used "just for fun." Depending on the team of the user, some people also thought that games could be used to represent Endeavor to non-employees, such as to engage with mentors on the servicing front.
### User Performance
One metric that was tested was a user's ability to retain the information that was presented to them during the game. On average, players remembered 48% of the facts in some capacity, or an average of 4.4 facts remembered against an average of 10.1 points scored. Generally, higher points were correlated with a lower percentage remembered, which makes sense considering how quickly the average person hits their upper limit on memorization abilities.
However, percentge of facts remembered may not be a critical metric for this game at all. Our goal is not to have new hires remember as many fun facts about their teammates as possible; rather, it is to help facilitate a few meaningful connections. While users would play the games, they would often comment on fun facts that they found particularly intriguing or related to in some way. When asked to recall facts afterwards, those were typically the same facts that they were able to remember. This points to the important of having meaningful data within the game that employees are able to connect to.
### Desired features
In testing the viability of Endeavor Snake, it was important to understand if a game was able to serve as an appopriate vehicle of information. In some earlier tests, users mentioned that after a certain point, they were not able to focus on the facts that were appearing and had to dedicate all their attention to the game. Therefore, I added a pause feature in the next iteration, so that users have 1.5 seconds of time where the game is frozen to read the fun fact before the game continues to progress. In addition to this, I think future iterations should have the fun fact appear closer to the game interface, rather than (or perhaps in addition to) the sidebar. In addition, perhaps facts should appear every few points rather than every time in order to decrease information density, and some type of timer bar could be displayed to let the player know when the game will resume. Overall, the goal should be to decrease as much focus needed on the game as possible so that players can fully appreciate the information as much as possible.
## Conclusion
Overall, Endeavor Snake was a successful experiment. Gaming seems to be a promising addition to the onboarding process, and Endeavor employees seem to have many other ideas for how games can be implemented into their specific roles. My main takeaways and key advice for continuing with this project are as follows:
1. Pay very close attention to ensuring that the game is being used meaningfully and not as a gimmick. This means creating a user interface that centers the information rather than the game, being purposeful about what information is presented, and ensuring the experience feels seamless throughout the entire process.
2. Use games to present the type of information that isn't necessary to memorize, but rather gets the user thinking in a reflective and creative manner. For example, games may not be an appopriate mechanism for company onboarding, where the employee needs to learn and remember how to perform key functions of their role, but it is a great method for something like social onboarding, where they only need to remember perhaps one or two pieces of information in a thoughtful way.